Hey, this is Mike1013 for Flop Turn River.
What I want to discuss today is defending
your big blind.
For some reason, whenever I've seen anything
or read any strategy about defending your
big blind, the great majority of the time
it's about defending your blind against a
butt-in or a cutoff steal.
Actually, I think defending against an open
by the small blind is a really favorable situation
and is one which is often ignored.
If you just think about it for a little bit,
when the small blind opens ... let's say he
opens to a standard 3x raise ... you're getting
two to one odds to call.
You're going to have position for the remainder
of the hand, which is very different from
when the butt-in or the cutoff opens where
you're going to be out of position for the
whole hand.
When you're getting two to one odds that means
you only need 33 percent equity to break even
if you're going to call.
What I did was, in order to get kind of a
basic starting point for what kind of ranges
we should be looking to defend, I made up
an opening range for the small blind when
it folds to him.
I decided we're just going to give him a 35
percent range, kind of a reasonable range.
Here, we can see that range there that I made
up for the small blind.
It's basically broadways any ace, any pair,
and a few suited connectors.
Once I had that 35 percent range, I decided
to see which hands had the 33 percent equity
we need against that range when we're getting
two to one odds.
The answer is amazing.
That's the range there that I got.
As you can see, it's a 79 percent range that
has enough equity to continue against the
35 percent range.
It's basically anything suited except seven-deuce
suited and pretty much anything offsuit, except
the very worst offsuit cards.
That's what you have enough equity to continue
with, which is a lot.
In reality, you probably don't want to be
defending something like King-deuce offsuit
or ten-six off despite their having enough
hot and cold equity for you to make the call
simply because the post flop playability is
not very good.
You might not want to be defending quite as
high as 80 percent of the time, but certainly
you should be defending your big blind against
the small blind open well over half the time.
Let's take a look at some example hands now.
Let me explain the stats that I have up here.
First line: VPIP/PFR/three-bet percent, second
line: c-bet, full to c-bet, and aggression
percent.
Our first hand here, the small blind opens
into us and we have ace-four offsuit.
If you look at his sizing, that's not even
3x.
It's a big mistake to fold any ace here unless
you know your opponent is the nittiest guy
in the world.
This is a super standard call.
Next hand, we have Jack-ten off and we're
facing a min open.
We're certainly getting the odds we need to
call here, actually with almost any two cards
getting three to one.
Our hand's going to play very well post-flop,
especially if you look at our opponent's tendencies.
His c-bets percent is only 37 percent, so
he's going to be checking the flop to us a
lot and we can either check behind or we can
bet and take it down on a lot of flops here.
Next hand, King-ten offsuit; this is what
they call a trouble hand, the hand that gets
you into a lot of trouble.
You should not play it facing a raise.
In this unusually beneficial situation, you
absolutely have to play it facing a raise.
It's plenty good enough getting two to one
and facing a fishy player to call here.
You keep yourself out of trouble by not making
dumb decisions post-flop.
If he pot, pot, pots it and you have third
pair don't feel obligated to call.
You're getting such a good price here that
you don't need to feel at all like you have
to go to showdown every single time.
Just play smart when you make second pair,
top pair, get a little bit of value; otherwise,
fold.
Next hand, six-four offsuit; this one is very
weak.
I think this is a hand you can fold.
Look at our opponent's c-betting percent.
He's going to just keep firing into us on
the flop.
Unless we have some really good read about
what his tendencies are, I think we can let
this one go.
That wraps it up.
I hope you guys have learned something here
and especially don't give up your big blind
when the small blind opens.
You have position, you're closing the action,
you're getting great odds.
This is a very favorable situation and you
should certain take advantage of it.
Take care guys.